---
date: 2023-03-22 12:30
title: links for mar 22 2023
layout: links
---

[Jacobin: We're Still Living in Don DeLillo's White Noise](https://jacobin.com/2022/09/don-delillo-white-noise-netflix-consumerism): 

> To consume is ultimately a passive experience: receiving something from outside the self. And our consumption is not limited to the products we decide to purchase. Without our choosing, we absorb what Jack calls “waves and radiation” — the chatter of television, the messages of advertising, the chemicals in the air and water. The control that we feel at the mall and the supermarket conceals our greater powerlessness against the white noise of consumer society. “The flow is constant,” says one of Jack’s colleagues. “Words, pictures, numbers, graphics, statistics, specks, particles, motes.”

[Greil Marcus: A Brief History of Chez Panisse in Four Parts](https://greilmarcus.substack.com/p/chez-panisse-seventies):

> It would be a little French restaurant where people would meet, find inspiration, renew old friendships, establish new ones, talk, and discover.  There would be work for people to do, and while it might barely pay the rent, it would be more fulfilling than any work they had done before.  People would leave their tables with a feeling of surprise at how good something could taste.  The way a peach or even a green salad could taste so fully of itself, as if it were both a thing and the idea of it, would suggest that other parts of life, outside the restaurant, could achieve the same rightness.
