---
date: 2023-03-16 11:00
title: gecs, heads.
layout: links
tags: music movies david-byrne jonathan-demme
---

[Pitchfork gives the new 100 gecs record (10,000 gecs) an 8.2](https://pitchfork.com/reviews/albums/100-gecs-10000-gecs/):

> On the surface, gecs are the least serious group this side of early-’90s Ween, always game for a deceptively asinine good time. That the few samples on this album come from Cypress Hill, Scary Movie, and Lucasfilm, in the form of the THX Deep Note, tell you all you need to know: The internet is an earwig that has broken millennials’ brains. 10,000 gecs sounds like being hit in the face with pies for approximately 26 minutes, two best friends having the greatest time throwing all the dankest shit from their musical file cabinet at you while you accept your ridiculous fate. 

I saw them [last summer at Outside Lands](https://sippey.com/2022/08/10/outside-lands.html), and though I'm *not* a millennial, they absolutely broke my brain in the best way possible.  

On the other end of the spectrum, and something that feels a bit more age approprite, A24 announced that they're [releasing a newly restored 4K version](https://a24films.com/films/stop-making-sense) of Jonathan Demme's 1984 masterpiece, *Stop Making Sense*. It's wild to rewind and read through a contemporaneous review of the film; here's part of [Pauline Kael's take](http://www.thestacksreader.com/stop-making-sense/):

> Byrne has a withdrawn, disembodied, sci-fi quality, and though there’s something unknowable and almost autistic about him, he makes autism fun. He gives the group its modernism — the undertone of repressed hysteria, which he somehow blends with freshness and adventurousness and a driving beat. When he comes on wearing a boxlike “big suit” — his body lost inside this form that sticks out around him like the costumes in Noh plays, or like Beuys’ large suit of felt that hangs off a wall — it’s a perfect psychological fit. He’s a handsome, freaky golem. When he dances, it isn’t as if he were moving the suit — the suit seems to move him. 

Can't wait to see this in theaters. Again.