---
layout: post
date: 2004-10-16
title: "the jukebox has a long tail"
permalink: /2004/10/the_jukebox_has.html
---

Chris Anderson's piece [The Long Tail](http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/12.10/tail.html?pg=2&topic=tail&topic_set= "Wired 12.10: The Long Tail"), already linked to shreds, brought a smile to my face with a quote from [Ecast's](http://www.ecastinc.com/) Robbie Vann-Adibe. Robbie and I worked together at Viant, and I was on the Ecast team when Viant put together Ecast's original business plan, operating model and working prototype of their digital jukebox...

> Meet Robbie Vann-Adibe, the CEO of Ecast, a digital jukebox company whose barroom players offer more than 150,000 tracks - and some surprising usage statistics. He hints at them with a question that visitors invariably get wrong: "What percentage of the top 10,000 titles in any online media store (Netflix, iTunes, Amazon, or any other) will rent or sell at least once a month?" ... Most people guess 20 percent, and for good reason: We've been trained to think that way. ... But the right answer, says Vann-Adibé, is 99 percent. There is demand for nearly every one of those top 10,000 tracks. He sees it in his own jukebox statistics; each month, thousands of people put in their dollars for songs that no traditional jukebox anywhere has ever carried.

I can't tell you how happy that makes me. Captured in there is the whole point of Ecast: thousands of tracks, delivered transparently on demand, giving barflys access to nearly whatever they'd want to hear at any time. And the jukebox is the _perfect_ place for a long tailed catalog -- at one point we had modeled (inebriated) people paying slightly _more_ for tracks that they typically wouldn't find in a corner bar.

And layered on top of the "any song, anywhere" benefit for users is the data component. Back in 1999/2000 when Ecast was blazing contractual trails with the major labels _("You're going to distribute digital versions of our catalogs to bars?")_, the folks on the other side of the table didn't quite get the value of the data Ecast would be collecting. I have to believe that's changed: Ecast is sitting on geographically tagged social purchase data. As the hit business both concentrates and dissipates, being able to predict the lifetime value of a recording means more rational investments in artist development. It may not be as richly detailed as the data from Soundscan or the iTunes Music Store, but if I were in A&R or artist marketing at a major label, I'd sure as hell want to layer jukebox stats into my forecasting models. Music spreads socially, after all...and what's more social than feeding a fiver into the jukebox?